PEP 681: Data Class Transforms (#2285)
python/peps: pep-0681.rst

   such as whether a default value is provided for the field.

Motivation
==========
There is no existing, standard way for libraries with dataclass-like
semantics to declare their behavior to type checkers. To work around
this limitation, mypy custom plugins have been developed for many of
these libraries, but these plugins don't work with other type
checkers, linters or language servers. They are also costly to
maintain for library authors, and they require that Python developers
know about the existence of these plugins and download and configure
them within their environment.

Rationale
=========
The intent of this proposal is not to support every feature of every
library with dataclass-like semantics, but rather to make it possible
to use the most common features of these libraries in a way that is
compatible with static type checking. If a user values these libraries
and also values static type checking, they may need to avoid using
certain features or make small adjustments to the way they use these
libraries. That's already true for the mypy custom plugins, which
don't support every feature in many of these libraries.

Specification

> =============

Reviewer: I think the current version is fine. It's easy enough to skip over the example code blocks if you need to.

> =============

Author: @CAM-Gerlach, what do you think?

> =============

Reviewer 2: I'd defer to @JelleZijlstra 's expertise. Thanks! :+1:

> =============

Reviewer 2: I'd defer to @JelleZijlstra on this. Thanks! :+1:

  class CustomerModel:
      id: int
      name: str

Class example
`````````````
Here is an example of using ``dataclass_transform`` to decorate a
class named ``ModelBase``. The implementation of the ``ModelBase``
class is omitted for brevity, but we assume here that it
modifies derived classes in the following ways:

1. It synthesizes an ``__init__`` method using data fields declared
   within the class and its parent classes.
2. It synthesizes an ``__eq__`` and ``__ne__`` method.

::

  # The ``ModelBase`` class is defined by a library. This could be in
  # a type stub or inline.
  @typing.dataclass_transform()
  class ModelBase: ...

  # The ``ModelBase`` class can now be used to create new model
  # subclasses, like this:
  class CustomerModel(ModelBase):
      id: int
      name: str

Metaclass example
`````````````````
Here is an example of using ``dataclass_transform`` to decorate a
metaclass named ``ModelMeta``. The implementation of the ``ModelMeta``
metaclass is omitted for brevity, but we assume here that it
modifies derived classes in the following ways:

1. It synthesizes an ``__init__`` method using data fields declared
   within the class and its parent classes.

> 2. It synthesizes an ``__eq__`` and ``__ne__`` method.

Author: I moved the duplicated text up above the three examples.

* ``order_default`` indicates whether the ``order`` parameter is
  assumed to be True or False if it is omitted by the caller. If not
  specified, ``order_default`` will default to False (the default
  assumption for dataclass).
* ``kw_only_default`` indicates whether the ``kw_only`` parameter is
  assumed to be True or False if it is omitted by the caller. If not
  specified, ``kw_only_default`` will default to False (the default
  assumption for dataclass).
* ``field_descriptors`` specifies a static list of supported classes
  that describe fields. Some libraries also supply functions to
  allocate instances of field descriptors, and those functions may
  also be specified in this tuple. If not specified,
  ``field_descriptors`` will default to an empty tuple (no field
  descriptors supported). The standard dataclass behavior supports
  only one type of field descriptor called ``Field`` plus a helper
  function (``field``) that instantiates this class, so if we were
  describing the stdlib dataclass behavior, we would provide the
  following tuple argument:
  ``(dataclasses.Field, dataclasses.field)``.

The following sections provide additional examples showing how these

> parameters are used.

Author: Resolving as a dupe of the other comment. I bow to your (you and Jelle's) superior PEP experience here. Will do whatever you guys feel is best.

      field_descriptors=(model_field, ))
  def create_model(
      *,
      init: bool = True
  ) -> Callable[[Type[_T]], Type[_T]]: ...
  
  
  # Code that imports this library:
  @create_model(init=False)
  class CustomerModel:
      id: int = model_field(resolver=lambda : 0)
      name: str

Runtime behavior
----------------

At runtime, the ``dataclass_transform`` decorator's only effect is to
set a string attribute named ``__dataclass_transform__`` on the
decorated function or class to support introspection. The value of the
attribute should be a dict mapping the names of the
``dataclass_transform`` parameters to their values.

For example::

  {
    "eq_default": True,
    "order_default": False,
    "kw_only_default": False,
    "field_descriptors": ()
  }

Dataclass semantics
-------------------

The following dataclass semantics are implied when
``dataclass_transform`` is specified.

1. Frozen classes cannot inherit from non-frozen classes. A class that
   has been decorated with ``dataclass_transform`` will not be
   considered non-frozen. Similarly, a class that directly specifies a
   metaclass that has been decorated with ``dataclass_transform`` will

>    not be considered non-frozen.

Author: I'm working on improving the language here.

@msfterictraut, is there a PEP/document/etc which specifies that "frozen classes cannot inherit from non-frozen classes". I don't see that in [PEP 557](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0557/) or the [dataclass docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html)

>    not be considered non-frozen.

Author: @CAM-Gerlach is the new language acceptable?

I waiting to resolve this until Eric Traut replies. Might be useful to have a link to whatever documentation there is on this constraint.

>    not be considered non-frozen.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this behavior is documented in PEP 557, but it is consistent with the runtime implementation. I didn't know about it until someone filed a bug against pyright.

Here's a code snippet from the pyright unit tests. If you run this in the Python interpreter, you'll see that it generates a runtime exception: "TypeError: cannot inherit frozen dataclass from a non-frozen one".

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass

@dataclass(frozen=False)
class DC1:
    val1: int = 6

# This should generate an error because a frozen dataclass
# cannot inherit from a non-frozen dataclass.
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class DC3(DC1):
    val3: int = 4
```

>    not be considered non-frozen.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, missed seeing this (I noticed the other open comment, but it wasn't that critical, just a passing question). Its a lot clearer now, thanks.

>    not be considered non-frozen.

Author: I tracked this down to https://bugs.python.org/issue32960. Would it be worthwhile to include a link to this in the PEP?

     # non-frozen class, which is an error condition.
     class Car(Vehicle, frozen=True):
         wheel_count: int

2. Field ordering and inheritance is assumed to follow the rules
   specified in PEP 557. This includes the effects of overrides
   (redefining a field in a child class that has already been defined 
   in a parent class).

3. PEP 557 indicates that all fields without default values must
   appear before fields with default values. Although not explicitly
   stated in PEP 557, this rule is ignored when ``init=False``, and
   this specification likewise ignores this requirement in that
   situation. Likewise, there is no need to enforce this ordering when
   keyword-only parameters are used for ``__init__``, so the rule is
   not enforced if ``kw_only`` semantics are in effect.

4. As with dataclass, method synthesis is skipped if it would
   overwrite a method that is explicitly declared within the class.
   For example, if a class declares an ``__init__`` method explicitly,
   an ``__init__`` method will not be synthesized for that class.

5. KW_ONLY sentinel values are supported as described in the Python

>    docs [#kw-only-docs]_ and Python issue 43532 [#kw-only-issue]_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   docs [#kw-only-docs]_ and bpo-43532 [#kw-only-issue]_.
```

Standard form for referring to a CPython issue

Alternate form
--------------

To avoid delaying adoption of this proposal until after
``dataclass_transform`` has been added to the ``typing`` module, type
checkers may support the alternative form ``__dataclass_transform__``.
This form can be defined locally without any reliance on the

> ``typing`` or ``typing_extensions`` modules. It allows immediate
> adoption of this specification by library authors. Type checkers that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``typing`` or ``typing_extensions`` modules, and allows immediate
adoption of this specification by library authors. Type checkers that
```

Avoid excessive choppiness and improve flow

have not yet adopted this specification will retain their current
behavior.

To use this alternate form, library authors should include the

> following declaration within their type stubs or source files::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
following declaration within their type stubs or source files:

.. code-block:: python
```

  _T = TypeVar("_T")
  
  def __dataclass_transform__(
      *,
      eq_default: bool = True,
      order_default: bool = False,
      kw_only_default: bool = False,
      field_descriptors: Tuple[Union[type, Callable[..., Any]], ...] = (()),
  ) -> Callable[[_T], _T]:
      # If used within a stub file, the following implementation can
      # be replaced with "...".
      return lambda a: a

Undefined behavior
------------------

If multiple ``dataclass_transform`` decorators are found, either on a
single function/class or within a class hierarchy, the resulting
behavior is undefined. Library authors should avoid these scenarios.

Reference Implementation
========================

> The pyright [#pyright]_ type checker supports the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The Pyright [#pyright]_ type checker supports the
```

Canonical capitalization per the Pyright docs

``__dataclass_transform__`` `alternate form`_. Pyright's

> dataClasses.ts source file [#pyright-impl]_ would be a good starting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``dataClasses.ts`` source file [#pyright-impl]_ would be a good starting
```

It would be...if it weren't written in _TypeScript_ :face_exhaling:

point for understanding the implementation.

The attrs [#attrs-usage]_ and pydantic [#pydantic-usage]_ libraries are
using the ``__dataclass_transform__`` `alternate form`_.

> Rejected Ideas

Reviewer 2: Typically, rejected ideas list at least a brief rationale for _why_ the idea was rejected, as the purpose of this section is to explain to others reading why these ideas were not incorporated into the proposal in its present form. I'd suggest commenting to this effect in the ideas missing it, if possible.

==============

``auto_attribs`` parameter
--------------------------

> The attrs library supports an ``auto_attribs`` parameter that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library supports an ``auto_attribs`` parameter that
```

> indicates whether class members decorated with PEP 526 variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
indicates whether class members decorated with :pep:`526` variable
```

annotations but with no assignment should be treated as data fields.
We considered supporting ``auto_attribs`` and a corresponding

> ``auto_attribs_default`` parameter. We decided against this because it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``auto_attribs_default`` parameter, but decided against this because it
```

Avoid choppy sentence and improve flow and phrasing

is specific to attrs and appears to be a legacy behavior. Instead of
supporting this in the new standard, we recommend that the maintainers
of attrs move away from the legacy semantics and adopt
``auto_attribs`` behaviors by default.

Django does not support declaring fields using type annotations only,

> so users of this mechanism would need to know that they should always

Reviewer 2: What's "this mechanism" here? `auto_attribs`? `dataclass_transform`?

supply assigned values.

``cmp`` parameter
-----------------

> The attrs library supports a bool parameter ``cmp`` that is equivalent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library supports a bool parameter ``cmp`` that is equivalent
```

to setting both ``eq`` and ``order`` to True. This is not supported in
this proposal. Attrs users should use the dataclass-standard parameter
names.

``kw_only`` field descriptor parameter
--------------------------------------

> The attrs library supports a ``kw_only`` parameter for individual

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library supports a ``kw_only`` parameter for individual
```

fields. This is not currently supported in this spec, but it could be
added in the future if there was sufficient demand.

Automatic field name aliasing
-----------------------------

> The attrs library performs automatic aliasing of field names that
> start with a single underscore. This proposal omits this behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library performs automatic aliasing of field names that
start with a single underscore. This proposal omits that behavior.
```

Alternate field ordering algorithms
-----------------------------------

> The attrs library currently supports two approaches to ordering the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library currently supports two approaches to ordering the
```

fields within a class:

* Dataclass order: The same ordering used by dataclasses. This is the

>   default behavior of the older APIs (ex. attr.s).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  default behavior of the older APIs (e.g. ``attr.s``).
```

* Method Resolution Order (MRO): This is the default behavior of the

>   newer APIs (ex. define, mutable, frozen). Older APIs (ex. attr.s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  newer APIs (e.g. define, mutable, frozen). Older APIs (e.g. ``attr.s``)
```

  can opt into this behavior by specifying ``collect_by_mro=True``.

The resulting field orderings can differ in certain diamond-shaped
multiple inheritance scenarios.

This proposal does not support any field ordering other than that used

> by dataclass.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by dataclasses.
```

Grammar and consistancy

Fields redeclared in subclasses
-------------------------------

> The attrs library differs from stdlib dataclasses in how it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library differs from stdlib dataclasses in how it
```

handles inherited fields that are redeclared in subclasses. The
dataclass specification preserves the original order, but attrs
defines a new order based on subclasses. Users of attrs who rely on
this ordering will not see the expected order of parameters in the
synthesized ``__init__`` method.

> Django primary and foreign keys

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to briefly mention what "primary" and "foreign" keys are in this context.

Reviewer: I think that's OK to omit, since Django is already introduced as an ORM package in the abstract.

Author: Would it be worth linking to some external coverage of these terms? For example, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_key

Reviewer: Maybe just link to the Django docs, https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/db/models/#automatic-primary-key-fields

-------------------------------

> Django applies additional logic for primary keys and
> foreign keys. For example, it automatically adds an "id" field (and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Django applies additional logic for primary and foreign keys.
For example, it automatically adds an ``id`` field (and
```

Fix repetition, add rst syntax

``__init__`` parameter) if there is no field designated as a primary
key. This additional logic is not accommodated with this proposal, so

> users of Django would need to explicitly declare the id field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
users of Django would need to explicitly declare the ``id`` field.
```

This limitation may make it impractical to use the
``dataclass_transform`` mechanism with Django.

Open Issues
===========

> ``converter`` field descriptor parameter

Reviewer 2: Doesn't pydantic have this too—in fact, isn't it one of its central features? Might be worth mentioning here, especially given its greater modern popularity relative to attrs

Author: Could be. Unfortunately I'm not a pydantic expert. I scanned through their docs and didn't see anything similar.

@samuelcolvin, does pydantic have a feature similar to attrs' converter field descriptor parameter?

----------------------------------------

> The attrs library supports a ``converter`` field descriptor parameter,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The attrs library supports a ``converter`` field descriptor parameter,
```

which is a callable that is called by the generated
``__init__`` method to convert the supplied value to some other
desired value. This is tricky to support since the parameter type in
the synthesized __init__ method needs to accept uncovered values, but
the resulting field is typed according to the output of the converter.

There may be no good way to support this because there's not enough
information to derive the type of the input parameter. We currently
have two ideas:

1. Add support for a ``converter`` field descriptor parameter but then
   use the Any type for the corresponding parameter in the  __init__
   method.

2. Say that converters are unsupported and recommend that attrs users
   avoid them.

> Some aspects of this issue are discussed on the pyright GitHub site.
> [#converters]_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some aspects of this issue are detailed in a
`Pyright discussion <#converters_>`_
```

Example of how this would look and fix caps, wording, etc.

References
==========
.. [#PEP-557] PEP 557, Data Classes (http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0557)
.. [#pyright] https://github.com/Microsoft/pyright
.. [#pyright-impl] https://github.com/microsoft/pyright/blob/main/packages/pyright-internal/src/analyzer/dataClasses.ts
.. [#attrs-usage] https://github.com/python-attrs/attrs/pull/796
.. [#pydantic-usage] https://github.com/samuelcolvin/pydantic/pull/2721
.. [#converters] https://github.com/microsoft/pyright/discussions/1782?sort=old#discussioncomment-653909
.. [#kw-only-docs] https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html#dataclasses.KW_ONLY
.. [#kw-only-issue] https://bugs.python.org/issue43532

Copyright
=========

> This document is placed in the public domain or under the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This document is placed in the public domain or under the
```

  # subclasses, like this:
  class CustomerModel(ModelBase):
      id: int
      name: str

Metaclass example
`````````````````

.. code-block:: python

  # The ``ModelMeta`` metaclass and ``ModelBase`` class are defined by
  # a library. This could be in a type stub or inline.
  @typing.dataclass_transform()
  class ModelMeta(type): ...
  
  class ModelBase(metaclass=ModelMeta): ...
  
  
  # The ``ModelBase`` class can now be used to create new model
  # subclasses, like this:
  class CustomerModel(ModelBase):
      id: int
      name: str

Decorator function and class/metaclass parameters
-------------------------------------------------

A decorator function, class, or metaclass that provides dataclass-like
functionality may accept parameters that modify certain behaviors.
This specification defines the following parameters that static type
checkers must honor if they are used by a dataclass transform. Each of
these parameters accepts a bool argument, and it must be possible for
the bool value (``True`` or ``False``) to be statically evaluated.

* ``eq``.  ``order``, ``frozen``, ``init`` and ``unsafe_hash`` are parameters

>   supported in the stdlib dataclass, with meanings defined in :pep:`557#id7`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  supported in the stdlib dataclass, with meanings defined in :pep:`557 <557#id7>`.
```

My mistake!

  assumed to be True or False if it is omitted by the caller. If not
  specified, ``order_default`` will default to False (the default
  assumption for dataclass).
* ``kw_only_default`` indicates whether the ``kw_only`` parameter is
  assumed to be True or False if it is omitted by the caller. If not
  specified, ``kw_only_default`` will default to False (the default
  assumption for dataclass).
* ``field_descriptors`` specifies a static list of supported classes
  that describe fields. Some libraries also supply functions to
  allocate instances of field descriptors, and those functions may
  also be specified in this tuple. If not specified,
  ``field_descriptors`` will default to an empty tuple (no field
  descriptors supported). The standard dataclass behavior supports
  only one type of field descriptor called ``Field`` plus a helper
  function (``field``) that instantiates this class, so if we were
  describing the stdlib dataclass behavior, we would provide the
  tuple argument ``(dataclasses.Field, dataclasses.field)``.

The following sections provide additional examples showing how these
parameters are used.

Decorator function example
``````````````````````````

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: python
```

  # Indicate that the ``create_model`` function assumes keyword-only
  # parameters for the synthesized ``__init__`` method unless it is
  # invoked with ``kw_only=False``. It always synthesizes order-related
  # methods and provides no way to override this behavior.
  @typing.dataclass_transform(kw_only_default=True, order_default=True)
  def create_model(
      *,
      frozen: bool = False,
      kw_only: bool = True,
  ) -> Callable[[Type[_T]], Type[_T]]: ...
  
  
  # Example of how this decorator would be used by code that imports
  # from this library:
  @create_model(frozen=True, kw_only=False)
  class CustomerModel:
      id: int
      name: str

Class example
`````````````

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: python
```

  # Indicate that classes that derive from this class default to
  # synthesizing comparison methods.
  @typing.dataclass_transform(eq_default=True, order_default=True)
  class ModelBase:
      def __init_subclass__(
          cls,
          *,
          init: bool = True,
          frozen: bool = False,
          eq: bool = True,
          order: bool = True,
      ):
          ...
  
  
  # Example of how this class would be used by code that imports
  # from this library:
  class CustomerModel(
      ModelBase,
      init=False,
      frozen=True,
      eq=False,
      order=False,
  ):
      id: int
      name: str

Metaclass example
`````````````````

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: python
```

    # ModelBase is not considered either "frozen" or "non-frozen"
    # because it is decorated with ``dataclass_transform``
    @typing.dataclass_transform()
    class ModelBase(): ...

    # Vehicle is considered non-frozen because it does not specify
    # "frozen=True".
    class Vehicle(ModelBase):
        name: str

    # Car is a frozen class that derives from Vehicle, which is a
    # non-frozen class. This is an error.
    class Car(Vehicle, frozen=True):
        wheel_count: int

  And these similar metaclass examples:
   
  .. code-block:: python

    @typing.dataclass_transform()
    class ModelMeta(type): ...

    # ModelBase is not considered either "frozen" or "non-frozen"
    # because it directly specifies ModelMeta as its metaclass.
    class ModelBase(metaclass=ModelMeta): ...

    # Vehicle is considered non-frozen because it does not specify
    # "frozen=True".
    class Vehicle(ModelBase):
        name: str

    # Car is a frozen class that derives from Vehicle, which is a
    # non-frozen class. This is an error.
    class Car(Vehicle, frozen=True):
        wheel_count: int

* Field ordering and inheritance is assumed to follow the rules

>   specified in :pep:`557#inheritance`. This includes the effects of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  specified in :pep:`557 <557#inheritance>`. This includes the effects of
```

My fault again, sorry!

  field should be included in the synthesized ``__init__`` method. If
  unspecified, ``init`` defaults to True. Field descriptor functions
  can use overloads that implicitly specify the value of ``init``
  using a literal bool value type
  (``Literal[False]`` or ``Literal[True]``).
* ``default`` is an optional parameter that provides the default value
  for the field.
* ``default_factory`` is an optional parameter that provides a runtime
  callback that returns the default value for the field. If neither
  ``default`` nor ``default_factory`` are specified, the field is
  assumed to have no default value and must be provided a value when
  the class is instantiated.
* ``factory`` is an alias for ``default_factory``. Stdlib dataclasses
  use the name ``default_factory``, but attrs uses the name ``factory``
  in many scenarios, so this alias is necessary for supporting attrs.
* ``alias`` is an optional str parameter that provides an alternative
  name for the field. This alternative name is used in the synthesized
  ``__init__`` method.

It is an error to specify more than one of ``default``,
``default_factory`` and ``factory``.

This example demonstrates the above:

> ... code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python
```

Oops, my mistake here

     # Vehicle is considered non-frozen because it does not specify
     # "frozen=True".
     class Vehicle(ModelBase):
         name: str

     # Car is a frozen class that derives from Vehicle, which is a
     # non-frozen class. This is an error.
     class Car(Vehicle, frozen=True):
         wheel_count: int

   And these similar metaclass examples:
   
   .. code-block:: python

     @typing.dataclass_transform()
     class ModelMeta(type): ...

     # ModelBase is not considered either "frozen" or "non-frozen"
     # because it directly specifies ModelMeta as its metaclass.
     class ModelBase(metaclass=ModelMeta): ...

     # Vehicle is considered non-frozen because it does not specify
     # "frozen=True".
     class Vehicle(ModelBase):
         name: str

     # Car is a frozen class that derives from Vehicle, which is a
     # non-frozen class. This is an error.
     class Car(Vehicle, frozen=True):
         wheel_count: int

2. Field ordering and inheritance is assumed to follow the rules
   specified in :pep:`557#inheritance`. This includes the effects of overrides
   (redefining a field in a child class that has already been defined 
   in a parent class).

> ```suggestion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Oops...my mistake here as well

users of Django would need to explicitly declare the ``id`` field.

This limitation may make it impractical to use the
``dataclass_transform`` mechanism with Django.

Open Issues
===========

``converter`` field descriptor parameter
----------------------------------------

The attrs library supports a ``converter`` field descriptor parameter,
which is a callable that is called by the generated
``__init__`` method to convert the supplied value to some other
desired value. This is tricky to support since the parameter type in
the synthesized __init__ method needs to accept uncovered values, but
the resulting field is typed according to the output of the converter.

There may be no good way to support this because there's not enough
information to derive the type of the input parameter. We currently
have two ideas:

1. Add support for a ``converter`` field descriptor parameter but then
   use the Any type for the corresponding parameter in the  __init__
   method.

2. Say that converters are unsupported and recommend that attrs users
   avoid them.

Some aspects of this issue are detailed in a
`Pyright discussion <#converters_>`_

References
==========

> .. [#pyright] https://github.com/Microsoft/pyright

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. [#pyright] https://github.com/Microsoft/pyright
```

.. [#pyright-impl] https://github.com/microsoft/pyright/blob/main/packages/pyright-internal/src/analyzer/dataClasses.ts
.. [#attrs-usage] https://github.com/python-attrs/attrs/pull/796
.. [#pydantic-usage] https://github.com/samuelcolvin/pydantic/pull/2721

> .. [#converters] https://github.com/microsoft/pyright/discussions/1782?sort=old#discussioncomment-653909

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _#converters: https://github.com/microsoft/pyright/discussions/1782?sort=old#discussioncomment-653909
```

So the above example works
